[SPEAKER_00]: did that ring ever lead you to any interesting acquaintance or conversation somewhere on the other side of the world or anything?
[SPEAKER_00]: No, not that I can think of right now.
[SPEAKER_00]: What kind, when you were getting, when you were leaving the campus with that new degree, what did you think was in store for you?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well it was still up in the air court.
[SPEAKER_00]: I wanted
[SPEAKER_00]: When I started school, I really had veterinary medicine on my mind to start with.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, you did?
[SPEAKER_00]: But it was a five-year program, and animal science was a four-year.
[SPEAKER_00]: And since I thought I might have to go a year and drop out a year and go a year when I started,
[SPEAKER_00]: I really had this in the back of my mind all along, if anything, if it worked out to where I could.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then, of course, the GI Bill came along after I was in the service, and even though I was married, had a kid, and I had the opportunity coming back here into College of Veterinary Medicine and getting that veterinary medicine degree.
[SPEAKER_00]: But other than that, I didn't have anything special while I was in the service.
[SPEAKER_00]: But you were getting, you were, when you graduated, you knew you were going on active duty.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: And where were you to report?
[SPEAKER_00]: To Camp Walters.
[SPEAKER_00]: Mineral Wells.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that's where I, that's where I reported and got in.
[SPEAKER_00]: How soon after commencement?
[SPEAKER_00]: I was home for about, uh,
[SPEAKER_00]: Just a few days.
[SPEAKER_00]: I can't remember exactly, but I would say a week, 10 days at the most.
[SPEAKER_00]: How well prepared did you feel you were to go off into the real world?
[SPEAKER_00]: Did you think A&M had done a good job?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: I had no doubt about overall, didn't in my mind specifically, but yes, I was well satisfied with it.
[SPEAKER_00]: In fact, I was real proud of that ring and the fact that I had graduated from Texas A&M University and always have been.
[SPEAKER_00]: What is the key to A&M spirit, to Aggie spirit?
[SPEAKER_00]: What builds Aggie spirit?
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't know.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of course, you can use broad terms like togetherness.
[SPEAKER_00]: Togetherness in what?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, in everything you do, you know.
[SPEAKER_00]: Back them up.
[SPEAKER_00]: I'm with you.
[SPEAKER_00]: Whatever.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't know how to put it, but it's something that's just getting ginger.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, when I first started here, when it was all core,
[SPEAKER_00]: I think that melded a spirit that still bubbles up, if you want to fucking put it that way.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't know how to express it.
[SPEAKER_00]: But again, being in a unit with other people, the drills, the thing you had to go through, the organization, and another thing, Haskell, that is
[SPEAKER_00]: people and I don't understand and I can understand why.
[SPEAKER_00]: Is that freshman year?
[SPEAKER_00]: It's just something, you know, you come down here, you graduated from high school, and you're an upper teenager, and you know about all there is to know, and the things you want to do, you ought to be able to do, and some of us had a lot of discipline at home and the community, others didn't, and man, it puts you all in the same category, and if you had a bunch of ego that you didn't need,
[SPEAKER_00]: you could lose it in a hurry.
[SPEAKER_00]: Then as you progressed from getting knocked down to where you, maybe even below where you belong, but down in that area, then as you became upperclassmen, you learned responsibility within the Corps, if you didn't already.
[SPEAKER_00]: And when you were a senior, even a junior or senior, you were responsible for those freshmen.
[SPEAKER_00]: Even when they were getting, maybe getting the board applied or whatever, you were responsible to see that they had time to study, that we were proud of the grades you made.
[SPEAKER_00]: They were interested in, I don't mean all, see all of them, but mostly,
[SPEAKER_00]: But you graduated into this area of responsibility from being put back down to sort of start over deal.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I think when you bring all that together, as it was then, particularly in the Corps, I think it's about the best way I can explain it.
[SPEAKER_00]: And it also makes a cohesiveness.
[SPEAKER_00]: While you're doing this, you get cohesive, you get welded.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I think we're still going through
[SPEAKER_00]: A part of the aftermath of that is still there.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think it has come through, even though we don't have all Corps and we don't have all boys and all this sort of thing.
[SPEAKER_00]: And it didn't matter how much money your family had or what your ancestry was.
[SPEAKER_00]: Exactly.
[SPEAKER_00]: Or what your accent was.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was putting everybody on an equal footing and you had to do on your own, not what somebody supplied you with or something else.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, I'm getting fairly close to the end of this part about your first four years.
[SPEAKER_00]: What have we left out of those first four years that we should have covered?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, let's see.
[SPEAKER_00]: I made a few little notes in there earlier because I didn't know what you were going to cover.
[SPEAKER_00]: I want to come back another time talking about vet school and your then being a faculty member.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: You're not engaged.
[SPEAKER_00]: You're not about to be married at that point.
[SPEAKER_00]: Not at that point.
[SPEAKER_00]: You're still single.
[SPEAKER_00]: I met my wife after I was in the service.
[SPEAKER_00]: There's one thing I recall, too, that
[SPEAKER_00]: I'm talking about some negative things, but anyway, this, I belonged to the Block and Bridal Club when I was in the animal science, and they had an initiation for, I guess you could join when you're a sophomore, and over in the old animal pavilion is where they had the initiation.
[SPEAKER_00]: The initiation was
[SPEAKER_00]: The upperclassmen, old members, formed a line, two sides, with paddles on each side, guys with paddles.
[SPEAKER_00]: and you start at one end of this thing and you go through this line and they womp you rear and one end to the other and it's, at best, it's, it's fairly uncomfortable.
[SPEAKER_00]: In fact, it's darn uncomfortable, but I had the honor of having this cousin I was talking about, was a senior, and he was the beginning of the line
[SPEAKER_00]: and I was one of the last ones to go through.
[SPEAKER_00]: So I get past him all right, and that was pretty tough, but as soon as the two or three guys behind me get through, he peeled off and he decides to come and help me through the line.
[SPEAKER_00]: So he tells his good buddy, the upperclassman, he said, hey now, you guys, that's my cousin.
[SPEAKER_00]: You be nice to him.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of course, you know what happened.
[SPEAKER_00]: They gave you extra attention.
[SPEAKER_00]: They gave me extra attention, and I soaked my underwear off my rear end that night because they were sticking, man.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I had it, you know, old Sarah would creep out, stuck, and you had to stick that and use a little bomb to keep it from resticking.
[SPEAKER_00]: I remember, I want to mention Mr. Garrigan.
[SPEAKER_00]: Mr. Garrigan.
[SPEAKER_00]: G-A-R-R-A, G-A-N?
[SPEAKER_00]: G-A-R-R-I-G-A-N, I believe it is.
[SPEAKER_00]: J-A?
[SPEAKER_00]: No, G-A, Garrigan.
[SPEAKER_00]: G-A-R-A-G-A-N.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: And he...
[SPEAKER_00]: ran the horse barn, took care of the horses, stallions.
[SPEAKER_00]: They stood horses at here, a couple of stallions.
[SPEAKER_00]: They had one five-gated saddle horse that had won some national honors.
[SPEAKER_00]: And he was a mean sucker.
[SPEAKER_00]: Nobody but Mr. Garrigan could handle him.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we had a mule before my time, I believe her name was Kate, I cannot recall, that was a fertile mule, which is one in thousands, you know, a mule is fertile.
[SPEAKER_00]: She had this foal, also had all the characteristics of a mule, it was by stallion, called old Pat.
[SPEAKER_00]: And this little mule, we worked, I was talking about clean out stalls in the barn.
[SPEAKER_00]: We haul feed and haul them one year out to the pasture.
[SPEAKER_00]: With this little mule, and this wagon was rubber-tired, a box wagon, rubber-tired, and had shafts on the front.
[SPEAKER_00]: You put that little mule in the shafts and hook and roll, and then you could do whatever you want to with it.
[SPEAKER_00]: But she was on her little cuss.
[SPEAKER_00]: If you didn't watch her when you walked around in front of her, she'd bite you.
[SPEAKER_00]: And if you didn't watch her also and got down behind her, she would kick you.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so we had to remember that meal.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then later on, Mr. Garrigan got kicked and...
[SPEAKER_00]: torn up here.
[SPEAKER_00]: But he was an institution in animal science here, as well as a guy by the name of Penny, who was in charge of beef cattle.
[SPEAKER_00]: Beef cattle in there, pasturing, feeding, and so forth, took care of that end of it.
[SPEAKER_00]: We showed, one year I recall, we showed cattle at Houston, and I went down on the train.
[SPEAKER_00]: We hauled cattle from here,
[SPEAKER_00]: to Houston on a train to the Houston Livestock Show, and I and two other students, as well as another guy from Animal Science, went down with them.
[SPEAKER_00]: We slept in the pavilion, or in the stable area, which was under the stadium seats, and it had an open north side.
[SPEAKER_00]: I've never been as uncomfortably cold even living in the panhandle.
[SPEAKER_00]: It varied just freezing and not quite freezing with a little breeze that wafted in.
[SPEAKER_00]: Not rain, but mist.
[SPEAKER_00]: And you couldn't get away from it.
[SPEAKER_00]: And of course, we slept in the, with the cattle, in the feed bin of the cattle.
[SPEAKER_00]: Didn't take enough clothes.
[SPEAKER_00]: Miserable.
[SPEAKER_00]: Man, we'd try to go eat and warm up.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that was another experience I had that was very different.
[SPEAKER_00]: Having to haul cattle by train from here to Houston.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did you and your buddies ever explore the steam tunnels?
[SPEAKER_00]: No.
[SPEAKER_00]: No, we didn't.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did you know about any secret fraternities?
[SPEAKER_00]: No.
[SPEAKER_00]: I didn't.
[SPEAKER_00]: What did you, in terms of the student leadership, what was the most respected student leadership position when you were an undergraduate?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, I guess the
[SPEAKER_00]: The... Corps commander?
[SPEAKER_00]: Corps commander.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: What did you all think about the band?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, we thought the band was great.
[SPEAKER_00]: I guess that's one institution that started from way back.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of course, it's not what we see now.
[SPEAKER_00]: And the L-Eaters?
[SPEAKER_00]: And the yell eaters, yep, they were highly enjoyed.
[SPEAKER_00]: Most of them were respectable.
[SPEAKER_00]: Some of them, Foots Bland and a few like that were, you know, they were.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did the yell eaters tell fables at midnight yell practice?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, some, but not like you hear lately.
[SPEAKER_00]: Not like you hear lately.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I'm about to finish up then.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's see.
[SPEAKER_00]: I've got just two other things.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's make believe that somebody came to you now and handed you a check for a million dollars.
[SPEAKER_00]: with one qualification, you have to pass that on to Texas A&M, but you decide what use they should make of the money.
[SPEAKER_00]: What would you want, if you had the capability to make a meaningful gift to A&M, what would you want it to be for?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, because having gone through animal science and veterinary medicine,
[SPEAKER_00]: I would think of that, but I would want it to be for student scholarships.
[SPEAKER_00]: Selected how?
[SPEAKER_00]: What basis?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, of course, need always comes in.
[SPEAKER_00]: I would not divide it by race, color, or creed.
[SPEAKER_00]: By major?
[SPEAKER_00]: Majors, I would lean toward veterinary medicine and animal science.
[SPEAKER_00]: I would not want to restrict it, however.
[SPEAKER_00]: If there's any way you could find out,
[SPEAKER_00]: good students, brainy kids, not necessarily brainy, but the good kids.
[SPEAKER_00]: Good kids in quotation marks.
[SPEAKER_00]: Who needed help to go to Texas A&M University.
[SPEAKER_00]: And you, in your saying, not discriminate and geography hasn't, you know, they don't have to be from certain counties or certain.
[SPEAKER_00]: No, I would like for it to be primary for Texas students, but I wouldn't even want to restrict that.
[SPEAKER_00]: But I would like to do it for, to give those students who cannot otherwise hack it, so to speak,
[SPEAKER_00]: an opportunity.
[SPEAKER_00]: I believe that's what, just without thinking too long on it.
[SPEAKER_00]: All right, then the last question today is, what feelings do you have in your heart for Texas A&M now?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, of course, you've got to put gratitude up there, right up at the top.
[SPEAKER_00]: uh the fact that you had an opportunity to go through this institution as a student then my gratitude for having been able to come back here on the staff and be a part of the institution hopefully making some kind of a contribution for the payback for preparation I had for life see because I went through
[SPEAKER_00]: I went through seven and a half years of being a student in this place, and it's been most gratifying, and I have some, boy, I sure have no regrets.
[SPEAKER_00]: All I have is thank you, good Lord, for taking care of an old country kid that needed some help.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's quit with that.
[SPEAKER_00]: All right.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's great.